+++
title = "Hidden Gems of Anime"
date = 2018-06-02
[taxonomies]
category = ["anime"]
+++

With all the anime there is out there it can be hard to find new things to
watch, and over time I have had to dig deeper and deeper to find things that I
think I will like. And every now and again I stumble upon something that I think
is really special, but that I have never heard anyone mention before and that
when I bring it up no one had ever heard of it.

So today I am trying to remedy that in my small part, doing my part to give a
bit more exposure to some series that I think have been over looked. As always
these are all series that I have personally seen to completion and that I
consider worth recommending. They are vaguely in order. Also I have tried to
avoid as many spoilers as possible, no matter how minor which includes character
names.

Also no _Houseki no Kuni_ pun intended with the title, oddly that one is a
little too popular for this list, even if it is fantastic.

## [R.O.D. the TV](https://anilist.co/anime/209/ROD-the-TV/)

While the OVA that comes before it is good, it is the TV season of Read or Die
that I consider to be fantastic. The story follows three sisters, all of whom
are Paper Masters(similar to Benders from ATLA) and have complete control over
paper, as they work as bodyguards for a young author. The whole cast is
supremely likable and each feels full realized and unique as a character. The
story itself is really interesting and full of both action and intrigue in the
faster moments, and can be really heartfelt in the slower moments. Add in a nice
jazzy soundtrack and really nice animation overall I think you get something not
only really well thought out, but with a polished execution too.

## [Kamichu](https://anilist.co/anime/489/Kamichu/)

One day a shy middle school girl wakes up a Shinto god. With no fanfare and no
explanation she is left to figure out what kind of god she is, and what it means
to be divine, for herself. And she still has middle school to contend with too.
_Kamichu_ is actually the most recent thing I have watched overall as of the
time of this article and I can thoroughly recommend it already. Full of quiet
moments and little details and with animation that surprised me with it's
fluidity I think this episodic little series is wonderful and think that many
people would agree with me if they just knew the series existed.

Watch out for the watch order though, there are a set of
[Special episodes](https://anilist.co/anime/3449/Kamichu-OVA/)
that are interspersed with the main ones.

## [Zegapain](https://anilist.co/anime/878/Zegapain/)

This one I actually heard of due to a comment made by Glass Reflection's Arkada
in one of his videos. So I guess someone talked about it at least. And I am glad
for that because this show was a ride. It was constantly twisting and evolving
but every time in a way that felt like it made sense and progressed the story. I
really don't wanna say too much for fear of spoiling it but it is a mecha series
unlike any other with some interesting characters and a wild story.

Also stick around after the last episode's credits there is a 3 second clip that
massively changes the ending.

## [Michiko to Hatchin](https://anilist.co/anime/4087/Michiko-to-Hatchin/)

A great and dramatic character piece set in a fictional South American country
about a little girl who is suddenly visited by a beautiful prison-escapee in
search of her father. From there starts a lengthy and oft-prolonged road trip in
search of her father. Along the way the pair learn a great deal about each other
and themselves and come to love each other.

A beautifully colorful and well written take on the age old roadtrip story, this
show is one that really speaks to the heart about love and family.

## [Terra e...](https://anilist.co/anime/2560/Terra-e/)

A space opera of grand proportions somehow shrunk down into only two cours. I
have never seen a series accomplish as much as this one did in the time. Telling
the story of a new breed of telepathic humans trying to free themselves from an
oppressive government this is a series full of drama and action alike. And with
such a full plotline it keeps you on the edge of your seat without feeling
rushed.

The only reference to this I have ever seen was actually a snide comment made in
_Joshiraku_. So perhaps this series is more popular in Japan than I think.

## [Gatchaman Crowds](https://anilist.co/anime/18229/Gatchaman-Crowds/)

I like to describe this series as a semi-deconstruction of the shounen genre.
The first big change of course is that the main character is a boisterous
genki-girl with an fetish for office supplies. Continuing that on, instead of
the usual trend of main characters being weak or confused/out-of-the-loop she
immediately proves to not only be competent, but well connected and overall
skillful. That mixed in with some other interesting twists makes the series and
enjoyable watch, even just for the main character.

This series is an interesting rehash of the classic 80s series _Gatchaman_, and
while far from perfect I thought was a bright and colorful take on the style.
